Welcome back.
Let's talk about something that we're going to work on in this section and probably the most exciting
things Elise for me when it comes to Ada.
Yes.
And that is lambda functions you see traditionally we've built and deployed web applications where we
have some control over the sheepy request just like we've built our smart brain app.
We kind of control everything.
Every little piece we're responsible for that server for deploying that express server and making sure
that our resources are set.
Were responsible for what we call provisioning and managing the resources that is making sure that we're
deploying to the right machine it's able to scale and all these configuration items.
Now there are a few issues with this method of just doing everything you're on one were charged for
keeping the server up even when we're not actually using or serving out and you requests for example
if nobody is checking out our Web site smart brain and the server is still up and running.
Listening to connections while we're paying money to have that server running that's not really efficient.
We're also responsible for making sure that the server is running that there's maintenance done on it
that we make upgrades whenever there needs to be upgrades and all these resources.
Again another layer of headaches and then we also have to worry about security making sure that everything
that we do with the server is secure and we won't have bad people being able to access it.
So Azara uses skills.
And then finally as more and more users start using our service we have to make sure that our server
can adapt to it.
But at the same time when it's not being used it isn't charging us so much money because we have to
keep it running.
And especially for smaller companies and individual developers this can be a huge headache.
You start getting distracted with all this management of your resources from other more important things
like actually building your application and writing code now at larger companies.
This thing we call infrastructure usually has its own team called the infrastructure team.
So what these large companies can use their expertise and their teams so that we can just focus on code
and just hand things off to them.
And as developers we've been looking for solutions like these to these problems for a long long time
and this is where the idea of server less comes in Servilius allows us to build applications where we
simply hand the cloud provider.
So Google Amazon or Microsoft our code.
And it runs it for us just says hey tell me what I need to run and I'll take care of everything for
you.
They also make sure that we only get charged for what we actually use because they can monitor what
code gets executed and what resources it actually consumes.
For example for seasonal things like Christmas shopping.
Well the cloud provider can simply add more servers more power to the requests.
And when it dies down it can remove those servers and because they can use those servers for other companies
they don't care that we're not using it anymore.
And then finally our code is running in a secure environment where the cloud provider just takes care
of everything for us.
They make sure that everything's up to date and secure.
All right that sounds really great.
I'm sold.
Let's start doing this.
Well let's use Amazon Lamda and LAMDA.
Like I said lets you run a function and this is how it's going to work and we're going to implement
this in the course when a user makes a request.
Let's say we just have a function that console logs.
I'M SO FANCY.
All we need to do is do a let's say Fetch call from our app to the your rule that the Amazon Lamda provides
for us and we just upload this code to Amazon Lamda and as soon as we do a fecche call today you Arel
it's going to log.
I'm so fancy.
Now how does this work.
Underneath the hood you see the cloud provider creates a container something that we know and we've
learned in docker and it runs this function inside of it.
And what happens if five users at the same time request this function.
Well they're going to create five separate containers for each user and respond with console dialog.
I'm so fancy.
All they do is simply store the function that we give it in their database and whenever it's being called
it will grab it from the database and actually run it.
Now you may see a problem with this and this is actually called the cold start problem.
That is they have to grab this function from the database which is just stored as a string and then
run it inside of a container.
That takes time and that is the one downside with Amazon Lamda when it first runs a function it takes
a little bit of time.
I mean when we say a little bit of time it's still Amazon so it's fast.
But once the function has been run and now more and more users are using it then it's fine because it's
in a container.
So that's one thing to keep in mind.
But the beauty of this is that this function is only going to be run when we trigger it and when it's
not run Amazon is not charging us at all.
So this is great if you have seasonal births in your company or you want to do something that isn't
running constantly something that only occasionally runs.
All right.
Enough talk we need to code to actually understand this concept.
So in the next video we're going to get started with Amazon Lamda.